<nav class="fusiondoc-api-breadcrumbs">
	<a href="../..">Fusion</a>
	<a href="..">State</a>
</nav>

<h1 class="fusiondoc-api-header" markdown>
	<span class="fusiondoc-api-icon" markdown>:octicons-package-24:</span>
	<span class="fusiondoc-api-name">ForKeys</span>
	<span class="fusiondoc-api-pills">
		<span class="fusiondoc-api-pill-type">state object</span>
		<span class="fusiondoc-api-pill-since">since v0.2</span>
	</span>
</h1>

Processes a table from another state object by transforming its keys only.

```Lua
(
	input: CanBeState<{[KI]: V}>,
	keyProcessor: (KI, M) -> (KO, M),
	keyDestructor: ((KO, M) -> ())?
) -> ForKeys<KI, KO, V, M>
```

-----

## Parameters

- `input: CanBeState<{[KI]: V}>` - the table to be processed, either as a state
object or a constant value
- `keyProcessor: (KI, M) -> (KO, M)` - transforms input keys into new
keys, optionally providing metadata for the destructor alone
- `keyDestructor: ((KO, M) -> ())?` - disposes of values generated by
`keyProcessor` when they are no longer in use

-----

## Object Methods

<p class="fusiondoc-api-pills">
	<span class="fusiondoc-api-pill-since">since v0.2</span>
</p>

### :octicons-code-24: ForKeys:get()

Returns the current value stored in the state object.

If dependencies are being captured (e.g. inside a computed callback), this state
object will also be added as a dependency.

```Lua
(asDependency: boolean?) -> {[KO]: V}
```

-----

## Example Usage

```Lua
local data = Value({
	one = 1,
	two = 2,
	three = 3,
	four = 4
})

local transformed = ForKeys(data, function(key)
	local newKey = string.upper(key)
	return newKey
end)

print(transformed:get()) --> {ONE = 1, TWO = 2 ... }
```

-----

## Dependency Management

ForKeys objects automatically detect dependencies used inside their callback
each time their callback runs. This means, when you use a function like `:get()`
on a state object, it will register that state object as a dependency:

```Lua
local multiplier = Value(2)
local data = Value({1, 2, 3, 4, 5})

local scaledData = ForKeys(data, function(key)
	-- Fusion detects you called :get() on `multiplier`, and so adds `multiplier`
	-- as a dependency specifically for this key.
	return key * multiplier:get()
end)
```

When that dependency changes value, the specific keys using that value are
recalculated.

[See the Computed docs for specifics on how dependency management works.](../computed/#dependency-management)

-----

## Destructors

The `keyDestructor` callback, if provided, is called when this object swaps out
an old key for a newly-generated one. It is called with the old key as the first
parameter, and - if provided - an extra value returned from `keyProcessor` as a
customisable second parameter.

Destructors are required when working with data types that require destruction,
such as instances. Otherwise, they are optional, so not all calculations have to
specify destruction behaviour.

Fusion guarantees that values passed to destructors by default will never be
used again by the library, so it is safe to finalise them. This does not apply
to the customisable second parameter, which the user is responsible for handling
properly.

-----

## Optimisations

ForKeys does not allow access to the values of the input table. This guarantees
that all generated keys are completely independent of any values. This means
keys only need to be calculated when they're added to the input table - all
other changes are simply forwarded to the output table. Since keys are also
unique, all calculations are unique, so caching and reuse are not required.