<nav class="fusiondoc-api-breadcrumbs">
	<a href="../..">Fusion</a>
	<a href="..">State</a>
</nav>

<h1 class="fusiondoc-api-header" markdown>
	<span class="fusiondoc-api-icon" markdown>:octicons-package-24:</span>
	<span class="fusiondoc-api-name">ForPairs</span>
	<span class="fusiondoc-api-pills">
		<span class="fusiondoc-api-pill-type">state object</span>
		<span class="fusiondoc-api-pill-since">since v0.2</span>
	</span>
</h1>

Processes a table from another state object by transforming its keys and values.

```Lua
(
	input: CanBeState<{[KI]: VI}>,
	pairProcessor: (KI, VI, M) -> (KO, VO, M),
	pairDestructor: ((KO, VO, M) -> ())?
) -> ForPairs<KI, VI, KO, VO, M>
```

-----

## Parameters

- `input: CanBeState<{[KI]: VI}>` - the table to be processed, either as a state
object or a constant value
- `pairProcessor: (KI, VI, M) -> (KO, VO, M)` - transforms input key-value pairs
into new key-value pairs, optionally providing metadata for the destructor alone
- `pairDestructor: ((KO, VO, M) -> ())?` - disposes of values generated by
`pairProcessor` when they are no longer in use

-----

## Object Methods

<p class="fusiondoc-api-pills">
	<span class="fusiondoc-api-pill-since">since v0.2</span>
</p>

### :octicons-code-24: ForPairs:get()

Returns the current value stored in the state object.

If dependencies are being captured (e.g. inside a computed callback), this state
object will also be added as a dependency.

```Lua
(asDependency: boolean?) -> {[KO]: VO}
```

-----

## Example Usage

```Lua
local data = Value({
	one = 1,
	two = 2,
	three = 3,
	four = 4
})

local transformed = ForPairs(data, function(key, value)
	local newKey = value
	local newValue = string.upper(key)
	return newKey, newValue
end)

print(transformed:get()) --> {[1] = "ONE", [2] = "TWO" ... }
```

-----

## Dependency Management

ForPairs objects automatically detect dependencies used inside their callback
each time their callback runs. This means, when you use a function like `:get()`
on a state object, it will register that state object as a dependency:

```Lua
local multiplier = Value(2)
local data = Value({1, 2, 3, 4, 5})

local scaledData = ForPairs(data, function(key, value)
	-- Fusion detects you called :get() on `multiplier`, and so adds `multiplier`
	-- as a dependency specifically for this key-value pair.
	return key * multiplier:get(), value * multiplier:get()
end)
```

When that dependency changes value, the specific key-value pairs using that
value are recalculated.

[See the Computed docs for specifics on how dependency management works.](../computed/#dependency-management)

-----

## Destructors

The `pairDestructor` callback, if provided, is called when this object swaps
out an old key-value pair for a newly-generated one. It is called with the old
pair as the first and second parameters, and - if provided - an extra value
returned from `pairProcessor` as a customisable third parameter.

Destructors are required when working with data types that require destruction,
such as instances. Otherwise, they are optional, so not all calculations have to
specify destruction behaviour.

Fusion guarantees that values passed to destructors by default will never be
used again by the library, so it is safe to finalise them. This does not apply
to the customisable third parameter, which the user is responsible for handling
properly.

-----

## Optimisations

ForPairs is the least restrictive of the For objects, allowing full access to
the key-value pairs being processed. This means that very little optimisation is
applied - values are always locked to the specific key they were generated for,
and any change in the input's key or value will prompt a recalculation.

For other optimisations, consider using [ForValues](../forvalues) or
[ForKeys](../forkeys), which impose stricter restrictions to allow for less
frequent updates and greater reuse.